README.md, before:

# SV-Meldeportal JLohn Autofill

Cross-browser (Chrome, Edge, Firefox) extension that autofills contribution fields
in the German **SV-Meldeportal** from **keyed JLohn field data**
([JLohn](https://www.jlohn.de/wordpress/)).

The extension fills values into the official SV-Meldeportal form and triggers
the required browser events so the portal reacts correctly.

## Screenshots

Popup workflow (examples):

**Leeres Popup**

![Leeres Popup](screenshots/popup-empty.png)

**Zwischenablage importiert**

![Zwischenablage importiert](screenshots/popup-clipboard-imported.png)

**Erfolgreich befüllt**

![Erfolgreich befüllt](screenshots/popup-keyed-filled.png)

## Features

- Popup UI for **keyed field input**
  (`feld:wert;;feld:wert;;…`)
- Optional clipboard import (only after explicit user click)
- Automatically fills matching SV-Meldeportal form fields
- Skips `0,00` values (required for JLohn / AutoHotKey compatibility)
- Status message shows number of filled fields and number of skipped `0,00` values
- Autofill triggers `input`, `change`, and `blur` events
- Offline-only (no telemetry, no network calls)

## Input format

Example:

```

beitrag1000:511,00;;
beitragssatzAllgemein:17,89;;
beitrag3000:0,00;;
beitragU1:87,50;;

```

Notes:

- Decimal comma and decimal dot are both supported (`511,00` / `511.00`)
- `0,00` values are intentionally skipped but counted and reported

## Permissions (store review friendly)

activeTab  
Used to access the currently active SV-Meldeportal tab after clicking
**SV-Meldeportal befüllen**

scripting  
Used to inject the content script into the active tab after clicking
**SV-Meldeportal befüllen**

clipboardRead  
Used only after clicking **Aus Zwischenablage holen**

host_permissions  
Restricts execution to `sv-meldeportal.de`

Data handling:  
No data is transmitted. All parsing and form filling happens locally in the browser.

## Project structure

- src/popup/\* – popup UI logic
- src/content/\* – content script that fills the form
- src/shared/\* – pure helpers (number normalization, field list)
- tests/\* – unit tests (Vitest + JSDOM)
- .github/workflows/ci.yml – GitHub Actions CI
- docs/store-listing.md – store-ready listing texts

## Commands

### Install dependencies:

```
npm install
```

### Format code:

```
npm run format
npm run format:check
```

### Lint:

```
npm run lint
```

### Tests:

```
npm test
npm run test:watch
npm run test:coverage
```

### Coverage output is written to `coverage/`.

### Build (release)

```
npm run build
```

Build outputs:

```
dist/chrome/
dist/sv-meldeportal-jlohn-autofill-<version>-chrome-edge.zip

dist/firefox/
dist/sv-meldeportal-jlohn-autofill-<version>-firefox.zip

dist/sv-meldeportal-jlohn-autofill-<version>-full-project.zip
```

The version is taken **only from package.json**.

## Debugging

Debug logging can be enabled directly in the popup UI.

At the top of the popup, enable the Debug-Ausgaben checkbox.

When enabled:

detailed debug information is logged to the browser console of the SV-Meldeportal page
(not only the popup console)

a compact summary is logged after each autofill run, for example:

```
[SV-Autofill] summary { applied: 10, skippedZero: 7 }
```

Notes:

- The debug flag is stored using chrome.storage.local
- Debug output is enabled only when the checkbox is active
- No debug state is persisted outside the extension

Debug logging can be toggled on or off at any time without reloading the page

This makes debugging explicit, transparent, and fully user-controlled.

## Content Script Injection Safety

The extension injects its content script on demand when the user clicks
**SV-Meldeportal befüllen**.

Because browser APIs may inject the same content script multiple times
(e.g. due to repeated user actions or internal browser behavior),
the content script is protected by an internal listener guard.

This guarantees that:

- the message listener is installed exactly once per page
- autofill runs only once per user action
- duplicate form interactions and duplicate log output are avoided

This design makes the extension robust against repeated injections and ensures
predictable, idempotent behavior.

## Review FAQ

Does this extension collect or transmit personal data?

No. The extension does not send any data to servers.
All processing happens locally in the browser.

Why does it request clipboardRead?

Clipboard access is used only after the user explicitly clicks
**Aus Zwischenablage holen**.

Why activeTab and scripting?

They are required to inject and run the content script in the active
SV-Meldeportal tab after the user clicks **Befüllen**.

What sites can it run on?

Execution is restricted to `sv-meldeportal.de`
via host permissions.

Why are there multiple config files?

build.mjs builds the extension and creates ZIP artifacts.  
vitest.config.js configures unit tests and coverage.

## License

Apache License 2.0 – see LICENSE.

Commit message:

Document why storage permission is required

README.md, after:

# SV-Meldeportal JLohn Autofill

Cross-browser (Chrome, Edge, Firefox) extension that autofills contribution fields
in the German **SV-Meldeportal** from **keyed JLohn field data**
([JLohn](https://www.jlohn.de/wordpress/)).

The extension fills values into the official SV-Meldeportal form and triggers
the required browser events so the portal reacts correctly.

## Screenshots

Popup workflow (examples):

**Leeres Popup**

![Leeres Popup](screenshots/popup-empty.png)

**Zwischenablage importiert**

![Zwischenablage importiert](screenshots/popup-clipboard-imported.png)

**Erfolgreich befüllt**

![Erfolgreich befüllt](screenshots/popup-keyed-filled.png)

## Features

- Popup UI for **keyed field input**
  (`feld:wert;;feld:wert;;…`)
- Optional clipboard import (only after explicit user click)
- Automatically fills matching SV-Meldeportal form fields
- Skips `0,00` values (required for JLohn / AutoHotKey compatibility)
- Status message shows number of filled fields and number of skipped `0,00` values
- Autofill triggers `input`, `change`, and `blur` events
- Offline-only (no telemetry, no network calls)

## Input format

Example:

```

beitrag1000:511,00;;
beitragssatzAllgemein:17,89;;
beitrag3000:0,00;;
beitragU1:87,50;;

```

Notes:

- Decimal comma and decimal dot are both supported (`511,00` / `511.00`)
- `0,00` values are intentionally skipped but counted and reported

## Permissions (store review friendly)

#### activeTab

Used to access the currently active SV-Meldeportal tab after the user clicks
**SV-Meldeportal befüllen**.

#### scripting

Used to inject the content script on demand into the active SV-Meldeportal tab
after an explicit user action.

#### clipboardRead

Used only after clicking **Aus Zwischenablage holen** to read the JLohn input line.
The clipboard is never accessed automatically.

### storage

Used to store the state of the Debug-Ausgaben checkbox
(via `chrome.storage.local`).
No personal or form data is stored.

#### host_permissions

Restricts script injection to the SV-Meldeportal domain:

- `sv-meldeportal.de`

Data handling

- No data is transmitted to any server
- No telemetry, tracking, or analytics
  -All parsing and form filling happens locally in the browser
- Clipboard access is user-triggered only

## Project structure

- src/popup/\* – popup UI logic
- src/content/\* – content script that fills the form
- src/shared/\* – pure helpers (number normalization, field list)
- tests/\* – unit tests (Vitest + JSDOM)
- .github/workflows/ci.yml – GitHub Actions CI
- docs/store-listing.md – store-ready listing texts

## Commands

### Install dependencies:

```
npm install
```

### Format code:

```
npm run format
npm run format:check
```

### Lint:

```
npm run lint
```

### Tests:

```
npm test
npm run test:watch
npm run test:coverage
```

### Coverage output is written to `coverage/`.

### Build (release)

```
npm run build
```

Build outputs:

```
dist/chrome/
dist/sv-meldeportal-jlohn-autofill-<version>-chrome-edge.zip

dist/firefox/
dist/sv-meldeportal-jlohn-autofill-<version>-firefox.zip

dist/sv-meldeportal-jlohn-autofill-<version>-full-project.zip
```

The version is taken **only from package.json**.

## Debugging

Debug logging can be enabled directly in the popup UI.

At the top of the popup, enable the Debug-Ausgaben checkbox.

When enabled:

detailed debug information is logged to the browser console of the SV-Meldeportal page
(not only the popup console)

a compact summary is logged after each autofill run, for example:

```
[SV-Autofill] summary { applied: 10, skippedZero: 7 }
```

Notes:

- The debug flag is stored using chrome.storage.local
- Debug output is enabled only when the checkbox is active
- No debug state is persisted outside the extension

Debug logging can be toggled on or off at any time without reloading the page

This makes debugging explicit, transparent, and fully user-controlled.

## Content Script Injection Safety

The extension injects its content script on demand when the user clicks
**SV-Meldeportal befüllen**.

Because browser APIs may inject the same content script multiple times
(e.g. due to repeated user actions or internal browser behavior),
the content script is protected by an internal listener guard.

This guarantees that:

- the message listener is installed exactly once per page
- autofill runs only once per user action
- duplicate form interactions and duplicate log output are avoided

This design makes the extension robust against repeated injections and ensures
predictable, idempotent behavior.

## Review FAQ

Does this extension collect or transmit personal data?

No. The extension does not send any data to servers.
All processing happens locally in the browser.

Why does it request clipboardRead?

Clipboard access is used only after the user explicitly clicks
**Aus Zwischenablage holen**.

Why activeTab and scripting?

They are required to inject and run the content script in the active
SV-Meldeportal tab after the user clicks **Befüllen**.

What sites can it run on?

Execution is restricted to `sv-meldeportal.de`
via host permissions.

Why are there multiple config files?

build.mjs builds the extension and creates ZIP artifacts.  
vitest.config.js configures unit tests and coverage.

## License

Apache License 2.0 – see LICENSE.
